Apple launched their new M3 MacBook airs
there's a 13-in model and this here is
their 15-in model but despite being what
many would argue to be the best laptop
in this segment there were a lot of
concerns and complaints that kind of
bubbled up right at the announcement
like when I tweeted about it there were
just people that were I think that had
legitimate concerns about it but there's
also stuff that seems a little bit
misguided I kind of want to go through
it so uh right off the rip this is the
M2 MacBook Air in a 13-inch model and
this is the M3 and the surface anization
on the new M3 versions at least in the
darker colors so the midnight color and
the space black are supposed to have
this like seal to them like kind of
coating over it to prevent fingerprints
or to kind of reduce the presence of
fingerprints and when I tested it on the
space black model last year it seemed
pretty noticeable but for whatever
reason I'll just demonstrate real quick
so this is the M21 when I smudge it
around my nose and my face which is
disgusting but just to get the point
across the grease appears right there
kind of smudges appear if I do the same
thing on the new one I would have
imagined that it would be much more
reduced but I feel like there's not much
of a difference and I was surprised I
mean look at me I'm like rubbing laptops
on my face here but I was surprised at
how present these smudges were uh and I
don't know if I got a lemon or something
but like when I try to clean it off it
seems just as smudgy so my impression is
that it is slightly better than the
nonsealed version version but it's not
like a fingerprint proof material if
that's what you're hoping for okay on to
the actual meat of this video uh all
right first I want to talk about what I
think is the biggest change or update to
the M3 product it's the ability for the
M3 MacBook Air to be able to connect to
two external displays now to be able to
pull this off the lid has to be closed
you cannot use the built-in laptop
screen it's just if you're connecting
two screens it'll now work if you do
want to use the built-in laptop screen
you're back down to just One external
display just like the M1 and M2 MacBook
airs now when this feature was announced
I think a lot of people were
disappointed because they were like how
is this announcement like there are so
many Windows laptops out there that can
run three or four screens concurrently
and even the previous generation of
MacBook airs like the Intel based ones
those could run two external screens
with its internal laptop screen running
like what GES what what's going on here
well I think it's just the nature of
these chips these M1 M2 M3 like the base
model of those chips they've always only
had one display controller that would
handle the external displays it was just
like one single controller that could
handle a 6K output for externals now
what I think they're doing now on the M3
MacBook Air I think they're just
rerouting the internal 5K uh display
controller and just pumping it out
there's no like malice or like bizarre
trickery going on that's just the nature
of the hardware you cannot have more
than those two displays running at any
given time and I see the complaints like
there's that's that's just the way the
hardware is now that being said I think
that there's some kind of trickery that
was going on back in the day as in when
I think about what's happening here it
doesn't make sense for Apple to just
give out free features like this that's
just Apple's not in the business of
doing that right I think what happened
is that Apple felt pressured to do this
from the Enterprise clients like for a
lot of people I know several kind of
high-end clients that purchase Apple
hardware and they held back from Apple
silicon they continued to use their
intel-based MacBooks because those
things could run two external screens no
problem and I think Intel banked on
Enterprise clients to be able to just
pay a premium and buy into that Pro
lineup to get that extra screen external
stuff and I don't think people wanted to
spend that money and I think Apple felt
pressured they're like you know what I
think we have to do this if we're going
to get a lot of Enterprise clients to
switch over to Apple silicon I think
that's the only thing that makes sense
to me why else would they do this right
this seems too good for Apple's nature
to be true but I think it's a win I
don't think it's perfect but having two
external displays on an entry-level
MacBook Air is not bad but you do need
to have peripherals now connected to
that device uh the second point of
contention is the starting configuration
of 8 GB of RAM and 256 gigs of storage I
hate it every time I see it like it
bothers me now there's two issues at
hand here first is the whole idea that
the starting configuration is only 8
gigs of RAM but the second issue is the
price of the upgrades now I'm going to
address the 8 gigs of Base Ram first I
don't think that that number is terrible
in the sense that there are a ton of
people I would say the vast majority of
people that even consider this machine
that would be perfectly good with 8 gigs
of RAM for like five six years and would
never notice any difference in the
workflow if they had 16 gigs of RAM I I
firmly believe that I've done a lot of
testing I've shown it to you guys I
think there's a lot of like clickbait
YouTube out there that tries to build
the idea that you absolutely need 16
gigs of RAM but rage bait doesn't take
away from the reality of data if you're
using it for regular use 8 gigs of RAM
is plenty for the vast majority of
people but the other issue at hand is
the cost of the upgrades and it wouldn't
be having this super sweaty conversation
about RAM on a MacBook if it wasn't for
the fact that they have crazy pricing
for those upgrades like to go from 8
gigs of RAM to 16 is $200 I actually
think it's like five times the industry
price for like Ram upgrades at this
point but because it's all baked on you
have to make that decision upfront now
if you think about the math it's like
literally 20% more money to go for an
extra 8 gigs of RAM it's so stupid it it
like eats my soul every time I look at
that configuration pricing but I think
there's a bit of a solution here I think
for most people that are looking at that
like the the price configurator and
they're like wow that is a stupid amount
of money and it is but usually you're
like on a hard budget you're like I have
1,00 bucks or like whatever 1,200 bucks
and that's my limit like I don't want to
go more than that so like what do I do
and the The Simple Solution this time is
you don't get the M3 because they have
great product the M2 that's 100 bucks
cheaper and if you get it on referb or
used it's even more you can get like 15
20% off just by going to the previous
generation and if you want to save even
more money the M1 MacBook airs are even
cheaper which leads me to the
conversation of that mild performance
gain over the years from M1 to M3
because that has been another complaint
that we keep see popping up it's like
wow these new Chips aren't that much
better absolutely they aren't but that's
kind of a good thing right in terms of
pricing when they when they release this
M3 product they have to reduce the price
of the older one and if the gains aren't
massive which they aren't just buy the
old one I think in all my years of doing
YouTube I don't think I've ever made a
video where I was like don't buy the new
one buy the old one because that's
normally like common sense right if you
want the best value the previous
generation is always going to be that
case so I don't bother with that but and
think in this particular timing of this
time period because the M2 and m1's were
so close in performance of the M3 and
there's that much cheaper and apple has
a refurb store which has like steeper
discounts it just doesn't make sense to
buy the M3 product if you're on a tight
budget unless you need the double
external screen now the CPU gains since
M1 have been limited the gains when it
comes to graphics performance though is
more noticeable it's just that it's
quite dependent on the application that
you're using now the battery life on the
M3 MacBook a 15 was really similar to
the M2 product from last year it's just
that it seems to drain a little faster
on heavier loads but I think in general
when you look at Apple's website there's
a reason why they're comparing a lot of
this performance on the M3 MacBook Air
product to Intel products just because
that's where you're going to notice the
biggest gains now in terms of gaming
this is a fanless system right keep that
in mind but uh this can run some pretty
demanding games at lower settings but in
general you're going to want to be
playing some really light titles now the
last I want to talk about real briefly
is the mentioning of AI in Apple's
marketing material so they talked about
running llms and diffusion models on the
M3 MacBook Air and it's legit even
though they don't use nvidia's Cuda
Apple silicon is fairly effective at
handling that type of workflow uh now
just to wrap this off the internals of
this device haven't changed right like
nothing or when I say internals I mean
like the screen and the keyboard this is
still a class leading keyboard uh the
speakers are't changed these sound
really good especially for a device
that's super thin like this um the
screen it goes up to 500 nits this is a
solid screen I mean obviously the
exposure of the camera is kind of
portraying A Brighter Image than it
actually gets up to it is capped at 60
HZ if that matters to you it is like the
thing that I believe Apple uses just
kind of separate the pro products from
the amateur products uh that refresh
rate okay there you have it the M3
MacBook Air